United Airlines DC-10-30 "Rainbow" livery by E-Savageair

Background:

    In 1974, United Airlines saw it was time for a new brand image, so they hired world-renowned graphic designer Saul Bass.
An Academy Award winning filmmaker, known for his movie title sequences and film posters, he was also known for his corporate 
logo designs.  He became the go-to guy for airline logos; he created Continental Airline's "meatball" logo in the late 60's 
and later in the 70's, changed the cheatline and stylized the "F" for Frontier Airlines (those liveries are available at 
www.flightgear.org/liveries.)  For United, Bass would stylized the "U" which became known as the "tulip" and was said to 
represent flight, the United States flag as well as the airline.  He then used orange, red and blue for the cheatline on 
the windows.  Bass used those band of colors because together they symbolized the motion of flight and created a 
modernized "United" lettering style. (Later on to enlarge the letters and logo, the cheatline was lowered just below 
the windows.)  The new "Rainbow" livery would debut for United in 1974. 

    The "Rainbow" continued flying till January 11, 1993 when the CKS Group debuted the business-oriented "Battleship"
livery; a grey and dark-blue fuselage with blue stripes on the tail.  However the Rainbow cheatline would remain as a 
part of the new livery, being slightly smaller and just under the doors; the "tulip" also was slightly smaller and 
highlighted with a white border on the tail.  Then in 2004 the Pentagram Group introduced the "Rising Blue" livery that seems to 
harken back the original "Rainbow" livery, using a blue-tone cheatline on the windows and an over-cropped "tulip" 
on the tail.The "Rising Blue" scheme however would have a short life. In 2011 United and Continental Airlines 
would merge and United would incorporate Continental's "Globe" design (that would replace Saul Bass's "Meatball"
logo design) that would replace the Tulip. 

    Such a livery would have some impact. The 1974 design would become to be one of the world's most recognized 
company images. Some design agencies actually mourned the lost of the "U".  Maybe someday it will come back as a
special retro.

To "Catch the Rainbow":

Unzip your file to:
FlightGear/data/aircraft/DC-10-30/models/liveries
Run FlightGear, and if you have your United livery, 
then you can -

"Fly the Frendly Skies".
(Cue in "Rhapsody in Blue")

Thank you for downloading ;-)
ESA


